---
title: Fancy Trix I
thread: trix
author: jay
number: 1
pov_char: fancy-trix
tags:
  - mixing
  - nightlife
---
On the night that Gazing Dreamer Elize first made herself known to the humble
patrons of the Travesty Inn, 1-firthan-eveningside-1, Mackintosh, Mixing Vendor
Fancy Trix was stood behind the counter of this establishment; polishing cups,
serving drinks, and giving every available signal that she had found her
vocation there. But her name was not Drinks Vendor Trix, nor was it Sparkling
Server Trix, or even Travesty Trix -- although that last one would have had a
certain ring to it. Fancy Trix didn't have an especially good reason to be
behind the counter on this night, or any of the countless previous nights in
which she invested her time this way, save for the fact that, shamefully, she
didn't have much better to do with her time.

Fancy Trix had begun the habit of frequenting the Travesty Inn several years
ago, mostly in the pursuit of gambling. Trix had somehow gained the favour of
Orothas -- or to put it in a more practical way, stumbled into some unnaturally
generous vein of beginners luck -- in those days, and had fleeced whatever
unfortunate souls happened by the Inn on particular evenings. Her game was
cards. Any game of cards, you name it. She had had a knack, at the time, but
her streak eventually dried up, as they all did, or perhaps she had just become
bored of it.

The crown jewel of her trophy collection was a spectacularly ancient copy of
_The Art of Mixing_, a tome of alchemical wisdom of which the original date of
authorship is unknown. This copy was at least two hundred years old by Trix's
best reckoning, and the pinnacle of academic learning on the subject in its
day. Hand scribed on robust, lilac parchment by Eloryn, it was adorned on
nearly every second page with delicate illustrations of relevant plants,
crystals and mixing ware, and given to charmingly archaic prose in its
descriptions and procedures. Even though most of the practical information in
this book has long since been eclipsed by modern alchemical study, Trix badly
adored every dog-eared leaf and dusty, failing seam of glue. Eloryn would
probably be able to repair it if she asked, but the decrepit state of the thing
was part of the appeal. It was a connection to a lineage, of sorts; a window
into a prestigious tradition of intrigue and discovery which Trix had recently
come to realise that she stood on the outside of.

By all accounts, she was a skilled and competent mixer. Which was fine. She
took pride in her work, and held a respectable reputation as a mix vendor at
the shophouse she had inherited in Mackintosh Square, wherein she applied her
_actual_ vocation during daylight hours. Master Maelyn had also been a skilled
and competent mixer, but not an especially good teacher, and Trix had ended up
just as much self-taught as her master. De was old - and old fashioned - and
wasn't particularly inclined to the instruction of young pupils beyond allowing
them to linger in the room while de carried out dir work. It was fine. It was
all fine, really. One couldn't complain too loudly about the fate of inheriting
a perfectly good shophouse in a prominent part of the square, nor of being
allowed to study under a real, working mixer with real, paying customers from
such a young age. It was fine.

But work-a-day mixing wasn't the same as _alchemy_. Well it was, technically,
but it didn't _feel_ the same. The pages of Oro and the journals of Eloryn were
not inscribed with the names of "common" mixers. These folk - the honest mix
vendors, wise grandmothers, and reliable doctors of the vocation - had
something of an antagonistic relationship with academic alchemists. This was
due not in small part to the academic tribe's insistence on separating the
refined and noble study of alchemy from the trivial and - perish the thought -
_practical_ application of mere mixing. Learned scholars, secluded away in the
University in the Middle, were careful to maintain this distinction, and
referred to everything outside of their literal ivory towers as 'mixing' with a
not-undetectable amount of disdain. It wasn't really, substantively different.
And yet, Fancy Trix felt herself on the outside of it. Clearly she had simply
internalised all of their cliquey, exclusive snobbery, and it was stupid, and
she knew it. It wasn't different, and they weren't better. And yet.

Fancy Trix was roused from a cup-polishing reverie by the banging of the door.
She lifted her eyes to see an entourage of young people enter the Inn in the
wake of a short but strikingly beautiful young woman of about 20, chatting
loudly and beaming a huge smile at everyone in the room. Travesty Tym -
rightful owner of the Inn and of the aforementioned 'certain ring' - promptly
equipped the newcomers with drinks and sat them at the corner table where they
continued whatever animated conversation had been ongoing when they arrived.
Returning to the counter, he gave Trix a knowing look and waved two large,
black coins at her before stashing them in the money box.

"They paid with black?"

Tym nodded once, wiping his hand on his apron. That didn't happen often. They
were from out of town, probably. It also had other implications. Two black
coins was worth significantly more than a whole evening of drinks at the
Travesty Inn.

"They're staying?"

"I'll put them on the second floor," replied Tym.

"There's -" Trix cast her eyes quickly over the group "- twelve of them."

"They don't seem to mind. Jubilant, it seems."

"Oh."

The leader, or whatever she was, certainly looked Jubilant. Dressed as she was
in a long-tailed vest, her overall impression was certainly feminine - but with
her hair cut short and neat and her cheeks adorned with arcs of tiny colourful
dots, she was playing with the female style in the way that was most endemic to
Jubilee.

"Anyway," Tym was saying, "they're not just paying for drinks and rooms."

"Oh!" said Trix again, catching herself gazing distractedly at the newcomer. 
Of course. She ducked below the counter to retrieve her mixing kit; a large
hash box with folding lids, and myriad internal compartments. Gambling wasn't
the only reason that Fancy Trix found herself frequenting the Travesty Inn
these past several years.

She could, of course, just wholesale fancy directly to Tym to sell at the Inn,
but if she was honest, she was both invested in the reputation that had earned
her day name, and eager for an excuse to spend her time here. Tym seemed to
enjoy having her around, and it certainly drew more customers than he would
normally expect. The Travesty Inn was a storied establishment, but it wasn't
exactly known for its vibrant, youthful atmosphere.

Suddenly animated, she pulled two mycoglass flasks from the compartments of the
box and placed them on the counter, and fetched several tiny glasses from the
shelf behind her. Both flasks swirled and gleamed with a deep, golden liquid;
one with a thin blue ribbon tied around its neck, and the other with a red one.
She placed the red-ribboned flask and the glasses on a tray and swept them over
to the corner table, where she stood before them brandishing the tray and
smiling expectantly.

"Oh, the colour!" exclaimed one of the entourage. The rest oohed and gushed
appropriately, and began distributing the little glasses. Fancy Trix made the
question-face at the first guest on her left, who held up one finger, and she
poured a small amount of fancy into his glass, and moved on to the next one.
The had done this before, naturally. As young people enjoying themselves in
Jubilee, there is little doubt that fancy would find them eventually. The next
one held up two fingers, and Trix poured dym double. This went on, with some of
the guests politely declining.

"Jubilant Her?", said Trix, when the circle reached the leader.

Jubilant Her grinned broadly. "Strident," she replied.

"Strident?!" Trix looked taken aback.

Strident Her giggled. "We've just come from Jubilee," she explained, "we had
a wonderful time. Everyone there is so beautiful! I just had to try."

"I'm sure you fit right in," said Trix. This was fairly ordinary professional
banter, polite flattery in the name of customer satisfaction. "I'm sure they
have plenty of this stuff in Jubilee," she went on, knowing full well that
they did.

"Oh, of course! But we couldn't stay in Mackintosh without coming here! You
can't beat a mixer who really knows their craft!" Strident Her glanced at the
nail polish on Trix's fingers, and then back to her face, grinning. Trix looked
abashed and stuffed her free hand in her pocket. 

"I had no idea my reputation stretched that far," said Trix, cautiously. She
was normally at pains to keep her night business relatively discreet.

"Oh don't worry, we heard it from the later tree. You have a lot of admirers."

Ah. The damn later tree would be the end of her little night career before
anything else would. Trix didn't know anything about attrapulsion, but it
really was a remarkable device. Apparently gifted to the square by the estate
of Mackintosh, the later tree had appeared only a few months ago. At first,
no-one knew what to make of it, but it had quickly gone from an exotic curiosity
to a staple of local citizen's daily routines, where it was employed to pass
notes, remind housemates to buy food, trade gossip, and yes, exchange whispers
about where to get the best narcotics in town. Business at the Travesty Inn
had been fairly brisk since the citizens had gotten the knack of the later
tree.

The newcomer had been smiling patiently when Trix snapped out of it.

"Double please," she said, holding up two fingers. "I can't wait."
Trix poured it. It was a generous double.

She finished pouring the round, and poured a single for herself, because why
not. The group raised their tiny golden drinks together with Trix and drank
them down. There was much appreciative noise as they returned the glasses to
the tray.

"It's so smooth," Strident Her was saying, "what's that delicious flavour?"

"Bobfruit," Trix explained, suddenly at ease again.

"I love it."

Trix smiled. "Fancy Trix," she said, extending her hand.

"Elize", said Elize, taking it.

"Strident Elize?"

"Gazing Elize," said one of the others.

"Welcome to Mackintosh, Gazing Elize," said Trix, releasing her hand.

"What's in the other one?" asked Gazing Elize, eyeing the blue-ribboned flask
still on the counter.

"Velvetblossom. For... after."

"Ooh..." said Elize, and her smile changed. "I see. We may have to try that one
too."

Fancy Trix returned the tray to the counter, stowed her golden flasks, and set
about washing the glasses. It was gratifying to be good at something, even
something as banal as mixing narcotic elixirs. Her thoughts returned to _The
Art of Mixing_, as she stared absently at the group of young revelers and their
strangely charismatic leader. Gazing Elize didn't seem like the _leader_ in
such concrete terms, but at the same time, she so obviously was. It was clear
that Elize went, and the rest followed. There was something about her. Did they
all come from Leans? How are they wandering around with a bunch of black?
Perhaps one of the followers is from a rich lineage. Elize caught her staring
and smiled again. Trix looked away. Gazing indeed.

Eventually, Travesty Tym closed up the Inn and led the entourage to the second
floor, where they crammed cheerfully into the four rooms, swaying and drifting
slightly under the influence of the fancy. Trix wouldn't be staying here. She
gathered her box and bade Tym goodnight, and emerged into the cold night air
to begin the short walk home. The wind was high, and knee-high waves of cloud
washed over the stones, making her shoes slightly damp.

Crossing the square, she passed within range of the later tree. Its many square
leaves glittered as the wind buffeted them about, reflecting sometimes the
moon, sometimes the street lamps, and sometimes distant swarms of luminari
flocking high above the rooftops of the square. She stopped to listen. A quiet
cacophony of overlapping voices washed over her, averaging out to an indistinct
shushing noise. She could pick out specific voices if she focused. A child
talking excitedly to it's mother. A young couple exchanging flirty messages.
A father reminding his son that they are visiting friends tonight. Several
citizens simply exclaiming "hello!", just to try out this weird machine.

"It's fine," Trix said aloud.

She listened for a while longer. She didn't hear anyone mention her name.

"It's fine," the tree said back to her in her own voice.

Trix went home.

