---
title: Attrapulsion
tags:
  - technology
  - attrapulsion
  - coupling-rods
  - stable-machines
---
Attrapulsion is a school of knowledge and techniques based on manipulating a
phenomena similar to electromagnetism. It is not yet known how attrapulsion
works, only that it can be reliably exploited. Practitioners of attrapulsion
learn to manipulate this magnetism, either by mentally coupling to an object
called a [rod](lore:coupling-rods), or by devising arrangements of attrapulsive
materials to form so-called '[stable machines](lore:stable-machines)', which
permanently uphold a static attrapulsive effect without the need for further
energy input. Research continues.

Certain metals, stones and ores are more or less attrapulsive and can be used
to create rods or other attrapulsive tools. Attrapulsion takes years of
dedicated study and practice to master, but is not based on innate or inherited
abilities, and can be learned by anyone through education and apprenticeships.

### Valence
The attrapulsive effect is not understood by Longbridge academics as a charged
field, it can be modelled this way. Valence is a property, not of the field,
but of objects which retain an attrapulsive effect, and is analogous to
electric charge.

<Embed.Article src="lore:coupling-rods" heading level="3" />

### Attunement and Dampening
Practitioners must attune themselves to specific coupling objects to
effectively manipulate them. This attunement process is typically just spending
a lot of time practising with a particular coupling object. This limits the
number of materials a practitioner can control effectively, although
experienced pulsers will be able to attune more quickly to new objects. This
could lead to practitioners specialising in controlling specific materials, as
well as the potential for unconventional paths to mastery by focusing on rare
or unique materials. Certain substances, called dampeners, can weaken or
neutralise attrapulsive effects, (including coupling) leading to potential
applications in security measures, anti-attrapulsion devices, or protective
clothing and accessories.

### Sensing and Echoes
Attrapulsive effects leave behind temporary echoes, residual energy signatures
which skilled practitioners can sense and interpret to learn about recent
attrapulsive events or the techniques used. Skilled attrapulsers can sense the
presence and strength of attrapulsive energy in their surroundings, allowing
them to locate raw materials, predict the behaviour of objects, and detect the
recent use of attrapulsion. 

### Effects on the User
Prolonged use of attrapulsion results in mental and physical fatigue for the
practitioner, with more complex or powerful effects causing faster fatigue.
This creates a natural limitation on practitioners' abilities, preventing them
from becoming too powerful or overusing their skills. Inexperienced pulsers may
face challenges such as accidental effects, difficulty with attunement, objects
moving in dangerous or unpredictable ways, and mental overexertion.

## Applications
Attrapulsion has numerous practical applications in the city, such as
construction, transportation, security and defence, resource collection, and
entertainment.

<Embed.Summary src="lore:stable-machines" heading level="3" />
<Embed.Summary src="lore:machinettes" heading level="3" />
<Embed.Summary src="lore:rememberer" heading level="3" />

### How Attrapulsion is Understood by the Academic Literature

Since the discovery of Attrapulsion in the last century, Longbridge academics
have developed a model for how attrapulsion works. It is roughly analogous to
electromagnetism, but has some important differences, mainly that either the
energy used in producing an attrapulsive effect either does not appear to be
conserved, or that it does not take extra energy to sustain an effect once it
has been created, provided that it is created properly. 

A properly created effect reinforces itself through carefully placed patterns
in the attrapulsive field, creating a stable minimum in the gradient of the
field according to the desired shape, called a trap. This feat is called
alignment and is intensively and actively studied by contemporary academic
pulsers. To create alignment, the valances of the incorporated materials must
be balanced carefully to create a stable trough in the gradient such that the
machine will self-correct to when nudged. Improperly crafted traps ’relax’ over
time, releasing the gradient trap and destroying the effect, or sometimes
implode dramatically when the alignment is lost.

Attrapulsive materials have an intrinsic property that academics call
‘valence’, which is a kind of charge. The valance can be either one way or the
other, which academics call ‘firthic’ and ‘ternic’, after the
opposite-but-equivalent directions on the bridge. Opposite valences represent
oppositely signed traps in the gradient and will attract and annihilate each
other. Similar valences will repel. Combinations of both can move the stable
point to some mid-space between the two sources that acts as the trap in the
gradient.

