---
title: Coupling Handles
tags:
  - attrapulsion
  - coupling-handles
  - attunement
  - machinettes
  - technology
---
The basic tool used by pulsers to exert mental control over the attrapulsive
field and create [attrapulsive effects](lore:attrapulsive-effects) via
coupling, a skill that must be developed over years of dedicated study and
practice.

Handles are made from refined attrapulsive materials, and are traditionally
thin, straight rods, but can be a wide range of other shapes. More recently,
handles are sculpted to fit the palm of the hand in a roughly teardrop shape.
Other styles are designed to be worn, including gauntlets, bracelets, rings,
neckbands or diadems. High-quality handles used by experienced pulsers are
often decorated with unique relief designs.

The orientation of the materials determines the
[valence](lore:attrapulsion#valence) of the effect. Advanced handles or other
tools can be created with moving parts which allow pulsers to switch valence
rapidly, enabling more complex effects and techniques. 

### Attunement Process

Practitioners must attune themselves to specific handles to effectively
manipulate them. This attunement process is typically just spending a lot of
time practising with a particular object. This limits the number of materials a
practitioner can control effectively, although experienced pulsers will be able
to attune more quickly to new objects. This can lead to practitioners
specialising in controlling specific materials, as well as the potential for
unconventional paths to mastery by focusing on rare or unique materials.

Certain substances, called dampeners, can weaken or neutralise attrapulsive
effects, (including coupling) leading to potential applications in security
measures, anti-attrapulsion devices, or protective clothing and accessories.
