---
title: Mixing
tags:
  - mixing
  - alchemy
  - academics
---
Mixing is a widely practised discipline in Longbridge, ranging from academic
research at [the University](lore:the-university-in-the-middle] to grandma’s
home remedies.

The art of mixing goes back as far as all recorded history in
Longbridge, and could therefore be descended from knowledge that pre-dates [the
split](lore:the-split) or was obtained via some lost connection with [the
ground](lore:the-ground).

The practice is also known as 'alchemy', mostly by academics who tend to refer
to themselves as ‘alchemists’ and everyone else as ‘mixers’ with a detectable
amount of disdain.

The product of an alchemical recipe usually takes the form of a liquid, which
is called a ‘[mix](lore:mix)’, and the subset of those intended for human
consumption is called an '[elixir](lore:elixir)'. Mixes are not always destined
for human consumption and have many versatile applications.

### Known Reactants

<Embed.Todo note="give each of these it's own stub article" />

Aurum: gold-coloured mineral extracted from bridge stones. When collected, it
is a fine gold powder. It isn't associated with any particular effect, but is a
necessary addition for elixirs in particular, to mitigate toxic effects and
make the other ingredients bio-available.

Kalium: a white mineral precipitated from rainwater. It is associated with
stimulating growth in plants and some other organisms.

Vexalon: a bright yellow liquid. In its pure form it is corrosive and
flammable. It has various counterintuitive applications.

Quilite: a malleable grey clay like substance. It is mainly used to change the
physical properties of other materials, often making them softer or destroying
crystals

Zorium: a silvery metal. It is radioactive (although Longbridge has not yet
discovered radioactivity).

Catalyte: a pale, semi-transparent, crystal that grows abundantly in the
Underneath. The crystal grows in a characteristic cuboid shape. It is used in
almost every mix as a liquid base to boost the effectiveness of other
ingredients.

Cerulium: a pale turquoise mineral. After refining, it is unstable in air and
must be stored carefully to prevent combustion.

Indigon: a bright blue crystal. It has a very low melting point. It is used to
lower the reaction temperature in certain recipes.

Nitryl: a clear, slightly viscous liquid. It is easy to ignite and burns
brightly and violently.

Tantalyn: a dull grey metal. Often used to slow the release of other
ingredients in drinkable elixirs, and to mint black. Mildly toxic. Naturally
oxidises rapidly when exposed to air, and must be de-oxidised before use in
most mixes.

Pluvite: a green, crystalline substance that forms at the edges of water
cisterns. When crushed, it has the ability to absorb and retain large amounts
of moisture, making it useful for creating mixes with humidity-regulating
properties.

Luminite: a rare, phosphorescent mineral that glows brightly when exposed to
light. Luminite can be ground into a fine powder and used in mixes to create
illumination.

Seraphite: a rare and enigmatic crystal, not found in any reliable location. It
is a shimmering, iridescent crystal that seems to change colours depending on
the angle of the light. Its properties are not fully understood, and it
exhibits unexpected or counterintuitive effects when combined with other
ingredients.

