---
title: The Exalted Order of Solus
tags:
  - tribal-era
  - religion
  - order-of-solus
---
Both an organised religious institution and the bridge’s first functional
[governing structure](lore:governance), The Order of Solus formed early after 
[the split](lore:the-split), providing critical social cohesion to reign in the
chaos of the [Tribal Era](lore:tribal-era).

The religious doctrine of the Order was based on a mythology known as [The
Skyborne Pantheon](lore:skybourne-pantheon). As a governing structure, the
Order was a morally dogmatic, totalitarian system lead by a hierarchy of
clerics and administrators, with authority over the personal lives of citizens
and the production of [critical resources](location:conservatory).

## Establishment

The Order grew from one of the largest and most powerful tribes, which had
taken and held a large pre-split building firthan of the Middle’s [tiered
gardens](lore:presidium), in what would become the enclave of
[Union](location:union). By voluntarily adopting a hierarchy of command, the
tribe became disciplined enough to mount a long-term defence of the building
against raids from rival tribes, creating a relatively stable place to live and
attracting more converts.

The mythology of the Skybourne Pantheon emerged to provide a spiritual
grounding for new members, and  the command structure in the group became a
religious doctrine founded on these myths, which was also an effective way of
preserving and communicating the laws of the tribe. The tribe began to be known
as the Order of Solus, and quickly grew to be the de-facto civilising force of
the late tribal era.
 
Compared to the tribal era, the structure offered by the Order was a welcome
and necessary civilising influence, and managed to maintain order and coherence
for hundreds of years. The Order monopolised the application of justice by
enforcing a universal moral code, and outlawed the practice of 
[return](lore:return). It also ensured the sustainable production of food by
co-ordinating and distributing the agricultural resources of the pre-split
farms and greenhouses, effective founding the enclave of 
[Conservatory](location:conservatory). Relieved from constant infighting, the
population bloomed in the early era of the Order, although strict reproductive
limits were enforced to ensure that the population did not outstrip
Conservatory’s ability to provide them with resources.

As life became more stable and prosperous, the Order developed ceremonies,
rituals and festivals. <Embed.Todo />

## Doctrine of the Order of Solus

[The Skybourne Pantheon](lore:skybourne-pantheon) provided the mythological
foundation of the Order’s doctrine, which included laws for the production and
distribution of food, assignment of housing, pairing and reproduction, conflict
resolution and justice, and many other facets of daily life.

- Outlawing of capital punishment, vigilantism and theft
- Strong taboos on sex and reproduction
- Mandated participation in agricultural and maintenance work
- <Embed.Todo />

## Decline

Inevitably, as the power structure of the clerical order became entrenched,
corruption and nepotism slowly crept in to calcify power within the hands of a
few powerful families, and the share of resources produced at Conservatory
became more and more inequitable in favour of the ruling class. Working
citizens toiled longer and for less, dissent grew, and quality of life slowly
dropped. As the populace grew more dissatisfied, the clergy of the Order became
more strict and cruel to strengthen their control over the populace. The Order
mutated the doctrine to justify increasing brutal tactics, eventually going as
far as to reinstate the practice of return. Things got worse until the
discovery of the [Bridgehand](lore:the-bridgehand) in <Embed.Todo note="400-ish?" /> triggered a mass
exodus of citizens to the firthan end of the bridge.

With the people previously having had nowhere to flee to, the Order had no need
to physically constrain the movements of citizens, and was not prepared to
combat the migration of citizens from the Middle. As the establishment of the
[Cult of the Hand](lore:cult-of-the-hand-archaic) attracted almost half the
existing population, the Order of Solus was in crisis. The clergy saw this as a
sacrilegious betrayal of their natural dominion, and sought to catch and punish
those attempting to migrate out of The Middle. Calcification and complacency in
the Order made it unable to effectively respond, and it frantically scrabbled
to claw back control over the bridge, leading to extremely violent backlash
against migrants and dissidents. While ultimately a failure, the Order
continued to spitefully wage war on the Cult for several decades.

<Embed.Todo note="erosion of the power of the Order after the exodus of the Hand" />

<Embed.Summary src="lore:skybourne-pantheon" heading />

