---
title: Products of the Bridgehand
tags:
  - bridgehand
  - food
  - raw-materials
---
Most of the varied forms of growth found in the Bridgehand are both edible and
nutritious, and those that aren’t find all kinds of uses.

#### Brightslime
Brightslime grows on the sides of the bridgestones ahead of the boundary of the
Bridgehand, and is harvested by workers using a long-handled scraping tool. It
is directly edible and quite nutritionally complete. Although the texture is
unpleasant, the flavour is tolerable, but very mild. It has been described as
“like mashed bananas, but far away”. It grows very quickly, easily as fast as
it can be harvested, and is never in short supply.

#### Capmeat
The flesh of the heads of the large mushrooms. It is a firm, pliable
consistency and has a rich savoury flavour. It is dense in protein. The caps
are very large, up to about 2 meters in diameter, feeding many dozens of people
each. The meat is usually sliced into slabs or cubes, fried with salt and
spices, and served in a thick sauce.

#### Bobfruit
Large, spherical growths found along the length of the Bridgehand’s tendrils.
About the size of a large orange, they are directly edible, sweet, and well
enjoyed by most citizens. Grows slowly compared to some of the other parts of
the Bridgehand (so still pretty fast) and has strong flavour similar to
strawberry milk. Commonly eaten raw or prepared into a dessert.

#### Lowfruit
Amorphously shaped growths found on the crawling vines near the bottom of the
main forest. Dense and flavourless, they can’t be eaten raw, but are prepared
by dicing into small chunks and boiling until soft. Still relatively
flavourless, they can be enhanced by adding salt and spices to the boiling
water, and serve as a good vehicle for sauce or gravy.

#### Bunches
Small, bioluminescent spherical grows about the size of plums, but which grow
in clusters resembling grapes. Confusingly, the term ‘bunches’ refers both to
single fruits and whole clusters. Bunches apparently don’t cause any ill
effects when eaten, but taste awful. They are harvested in small numbers for
niche alchemical purposes, but don’t have many other uses.

#### Seer’s Slime
Clear slime found on the black stalagmite growths in the Underneath. It is one
of the few parts of the Bridgehand which is not edible by humans. It will
irritate the skin if touched, and burns with a capsaicin-like sensation when
eaten. Don’t get it in your eyes.

##### Seer’s Preparation / Seeing Tea
Consumed raw, Seer’s slime will make you very ill, but it can be alchemically
prepared into a psychedelic tincture, which is taken ceremonially by members of
the Cult of the Hand for the purpose of inducing hallucinogenic visions. The
preparation concentrates the slime by a large factor, and mitigates most of the
ill effects of the raw slime, but is still very unpleasant to taste, and is an
off-putting opaque yellow-brown colour due to the alchemical treatment.

#### Mycowood
A lightweight, sturdy material harvested from the stems of the larger
mushrooms. Similar to balsa wood, but much stronger, suitable for constructing
buildings, and is the most widely used building material for new buildings or
additions to pre-split structures. Stems are dried for several weeks before
being milled and squared into timber. Unlike wood, there is no visible grain,
instead having a mottled, blotchy pattern similar to perlin noise.

#### Mycoglass
A very strong, mostly transparent material similar to acrylic or pyrex, made by
alchemically processing brightslime. It can be formed into panes, beakers, and
other items while still soft after processing. Once it hardens, it is very
resistant to shattering and heat, and will not return to a malleable state.
Widely used by mixers. Unsuitable for storing or mixing strong acids.

#### Hash
Longer fibres from tendrils formed into a rigid panel. The fibres are stripped
from harvested tendrils after removing edible bobfruits, then dried, woven
together, and pressed with heavy stones. The sheet of hash is fairly fragile,
and is suitable for decorative screens, as a canvas for artwork, and for
temporary structures, but not proper construction. Cheap to make and popular
with children building forts.

#### Parchment
A thick but durable form of writing paper made from pressed hyphae. Comes out a
slightly pink or purple colour. Lasts several decades before the fibres begin
to decay; decaying parchment turns to dust slowly at the edges and crumbles
inwards. This process is slow enough to rescue whatever information by scribing
it to a new parchment. Higher quality parchment can be made with a higher
density and alchemically treated to give a whiter colour and prolong it’s
stable lifespan for much longer, up to 200 years.

#### Ink
A simple, waterfast black ink made from brightslime and candle black.

