---
title: Story Form
tags:
  - music
  - worship-poems
---
The traditional form of music in Longbridge, known as ‘story form’, evolved
from the [worship poems](lore:worship-poems) developed by the original 
[Cult of the Hand](lore:cult-of-the-hand-archaic). The combination of day poems
(simple rhythmic work chants) and dusk poems (long stories told in the
evenings) is the earliest recorded form of music in Longbridge. Some day poems
are still used by labourers in [Workhome](location:workhome).

The song in story form is unevenly divided into two sections, tale and dance. 


### Tale
In the tale section, the performer tells a story one line at a time, punctuated
by a short, memorable chant shouted by the audience, forming a kind of
call-and-response structure. It is characterised by a mixed-length additive
rhythm, where each meter is again unevenly divided into two sections.

The first section, called the soli (solo), is composed of a variable number of
‘long’ beats (3 count) in which one of the performers sings. Each performance
group may elect the member with the best voice to be the only singer, but it is
just as common for each member to have certain songs assigned to them in
roughly equal ratio.

The number of beats in the soli is fluidly variable, being as long or short as
necessary to fit each line in the performer’s story. The end of the measure,
called the poli (everyone), is composed of exactly two ‘short’ beats (2 count)
in which the listeners respond with a brief, memorable chant to punctuate the
end of the meter.

In later works of this form, it is common for the second note
of the poli to be sustained over the start of the next soli, as an extra layer
of harmony in the piece.

The tale traditionally ends with a ‘finale’ meter (usually featuring the
longest soli of the tale), and a 2-poli, with four short beats instead of two.
This structure is relatively flexible and often depends on the tone of song,
with more upbeat subject matter featuring a 3- or 4-poli finale, and more
sombre songs favouring the traditional 2-poli fairly strictly. This signals the
transition into the dance section of the song.

It is up to the audience to be familiar with the story in order to know when
the poli kicks in as the tale section progresses, or to pick it up from other
listeners. This works fine for very well-known, traditional songs but can make
it difficult for new works to catch on, especially if the performers are trying
to do something interesting or unusual with the form. The words used in the
poli chant are typically the same - or close variations of the same - in every
meter to make memorisation easy. Another method used to help memorisation is to
make the poli chant repeat the last two syllables of the preceding soli.

### Dance
The dance section features a much more consistent and lively rhythm, with beats
landing at the same tempo as in the poli, but now divided into a 3-count, with
the middle count de-emphasised to create a triplet-swing feel.

The dance section most often has no words (designed as the name suggests to be
danced instead of sung), but will sometimes include a reprise of the finale
poli, or the occasional “hey!” (whether it is part of the song or not).
Musically it is a more upbeat elaboration of the melodic and harmonic themes
established in the tale section of the song, and can feature impressive melodic
solo performances from various players in the group.

When performed, the dance section goes as long as the performers feel like
playing it and the audience continues dancing to it. The end is signalled by a
slowing of the tempo and a crescendo in the performance that builds to a
sustained final note. In later styles of performance, there is sometimes a
‘false ending’, where the song appears to slow down and stop, but then suddenly
resumes again and continues for a bit longer. This is a playful way of tricking
the audience and squeezing a bit more frivolity out of very popular songs.

<Embed.Summary src="lore:modern-dance" heading />

