---
title: The Bridgehand
tags:
  - bridgehand
  - flora
  - fungi
  - food
  - materials
  - cult-of-the-hand
  - workhome
---
A colossal, intelligent fungus that engulfs the far firthan end of the bridge.
It is a wild forest of tendrils, mushrooms, and various other growths, many of
which are edible or provide other important material to Longbridge.

### Features

The Bridgehand earned it's name for the shape that it makes as it grows around
the top of the 11-firthan pillar. From a distance it appears overwhelming
purple, but any colour can be found somewhere inside. For miles, the bridge is
dominated by a wild forest of tendrils and mushrooms, sometimes taller than
some of the buildings in Longbridge. These structures grow tallest near the
edges of the bridge, leaving the central street relatively passable, until you
get too deep into the forest and the thicket becomes impossible to navigate.

Unlike most mycolids, the Bridgehand doesn’t appear to produce spores. It
simply grows longer, taller and denser as it ages, apparently drawing
sustenance from somewhere on the ground. The Bridgehand grows very quickly and
yields many useful resources; it is a critical source of food and materials,
and life in Longbridge would be much harder, if not impossible without it.

Near the stones, long winding tendrils sprout from a thick carpet of hyphae
and tangles of smaller interwoved vines. Some tendrols end in a round nodule
about the size of a . The nodules, and the tendril itself
are edible, and a favourite meal staple of many residents.

The tall mushrooms stems are a solid, compacted mycelium and are very
rigid, and this makes them an excellent source for a lightweight, wood-like
material used for buildings and furniture, called mycowood. The stems grow
anywhere from 1 to 4 meters or more. The caps of these mushrooms are edible,
usually purple, and grow up to 2 meters in diameter.

A brightly coloured slime clings to the outside edges of the bridge for some
distance in front of the boundary of the Bridgehand. This grows very quickly
and is regularly harvested by farmers, who scrape it with a long-handled tool
similar in shape ro a broom, but with a flat metal blade at the end. The slime
is also edible and is replenished roughly as quickly as it is harvested. It has
several medicinal properties, and can be processed, shaped and dried into a
hard plasticky material with many uses. At night, it displays subtle patterns
of bioluminescence, including ripples, waves and sometimes coherent shapes.

Most of the Bridgehand, except for slimes, is covered in a fine,
candy-floss-like layer of hyphae, which can be spun into thread for clothes or
compressed into a form of parchment.

### Underneath

In the Underneath, the forest is just as dense and impassable, and the
Bridgehand shares the space with several unique creatures not found elsewhere
on the bridge. In the dark, new features of the fungus emerge, including
bioluminescent spheres up to the size of a plum, which grow in bunches like
grapes. These are not edible and residents don’t have much use for them.
Further inside, clusters of black stalactite-like protrusions grow from the
floor of the Underneath. These secrete a clear gel which burns the skin,
probably a defence mechanism against the various creatures that make a living
here. With proper alchemical preparation, this substance creates a powerful
hallucinogenic effect when consumed in the correct doses.

### Spore infection

The Bridgehand is attempting to warn the cultists of an infection of exogenous
spores that has taken hold within the brightslime layer further down the
Bridge. This is robbing the Hand of nutrients and will threaten to poison
people who eat the slime if it reaches the populated end of the fungus. The
Bridgehand suspects the spores will infest the brains of humans for it’s own
purposes, and it is trying to recruit help to eradicate the infection.

<Embed.Article src="lore:products-of-the-bridgehand" heading />
<Embed.Article src="lore:cult-of-the-hand"           heading />

