---
title: Insatiable Tamryn I
thread: insatiable-tamryn
author: jay
number: 1
synopsis: Insatible Tamryn partakes in a seeing ceremony, and takes a risk.
pov_char: insatiable-tamryn
other_chars: 
 - Handelin First Seer Ria
 - Unnamed Cult of the Hand members
locations:
 - Ceremonial Hall, Main Village, Cult of the Hand, Bridgehand, Beyond 11-firthan
tags:
 - seeing-tea
 - cult-of-the-hand
 - the-bridgehand
 - seeing-ceremony
 - worship-poem
---
Handelyn Second Seer Insatiable Tamryn had slept on dir face again. It became
clear from the way that First Ria was glowering at dym over the rim of her tea
bowl. First Ria flicked her eyes to indicate the special decor draping the
inside of the hall. 

_Have a sense of occasion, would you?_

Second Tamryn glances at dir reflection in the oily surface of the tea in dir
bowl. Dir hair was matted and spikey on one side, and dir face sported several
red blotches, imprints of the coils upon which de had eventually passed into
sleep after last night's revelries. It's not like the occasion was particularly
occasional. Seeing ceremonies happened every month. Second Tamryn stared First
Ria in the eyes until she looked away, and then squashed dir hair flat with the
palm of dir hand when she wasn't looking. De would cut it soon anyway.

Gradually the hall fills with the rest of the troupe, shuffling in silently
and taking up their tea bowls in the order that First Ria had prescribed.
Taking the wrong bowl meant you were getting someone else's dose - resulting in
one party suffering a day or two of horrible stomach cramps, and the other
suffering a waste of their time. There is serious work to be done here. Second
Tamryn has spent the last week preparing the tea carefully for each member
specifically; measuring, tasting and adjusting the combination of ingredients
to best bring out their unique abilities. De even goes as far as to incorporate
personal reports from previous ceremonies, inducing particular effects or
subjects, so that members can follow specific lines of inquiry or specialise in
a certain theory. Second Tamryn is very good at this. That's why de is the
Second.

There has long been a strongly held belief that the Hand is not only sentient,
but intelligent, generous and benevolent. How else explain the abundance of
food and shelter visited upon the bridge for hundreds of years? It is only more
recently that there has developed the suspicion that the Hand is also _up to
something_. Second Tamryn is sure of it. De has tried every way de can think of
to convince dir peers - and not least of all, dir First - that de is more
deeply in tune with the Bridgehand's message than ever. While it's certainly
true that no one else in the troupe has been so deep for so long as Insatiable
Tamryn, there is understandable skepticism over whether the increasingly strong
tea de is taking is producing genuine insight, or merely poisoning dir brain.
Indeed, de is yet to find dir limit. Child of two generations of seers,
Insatiable Tamryn's tolerance for the seeing tea is positively alarming. If de
weren't in charge of preparation, First Ria would absolutely never authorise
the reckless concoction that her Second is about to consume.

Rule-breaking and convention-flouting must be done outside of the vigilance of
First Ria. She will not be having it. She so completely suits the role of
First, that it has legitimately become her day name. Any other troupe member
would rightly find this mortifying, but Ria seems totally at home with it.
First Ria truly is a perfectly straight stem. Second Tamryn suspects that she
would make great furniture.

Four of the twelve members now stand. Together they perform the commencement
poem, same as every other time it has been sung, a thousand times, every month
for a hundred-something years. Second Tamryn is extremely, paralysingly bored
of the commencement poem. Mercifully, it is short. Shorter than the
reconnection poem, anyway. De stares into the murky, rusty tea in dir bowl
while dutifully lending dir voice to the chanted parts of the poem. Despite dir
best scheming, dir tea is noticeably more orange than anyone else's. De simply
hopes that the other members are too preoccupied with dreading the
unpleasantness that is inflicted upon them every month to notice. The tea
simply cannot be made less revolting. It's truly, inescapably awful. Even
Insatiable Tamryn, prodigal tea mixer, Second Seer of the largest troupe in the
Cult of the Hand, cannot make it tolerable. Well, maybe de could, if that's
what de had been trying to do.

That is _not_ what de has been trying to do.

As the final verse of the poem growls to a close, Insatiable Tamryn finally
gets nervous. Dir stomach is protesting before dir hands even begin to move the
tea bowl closer to dir lips. Skilled seers can sidestep the worst of it by
setting off quickly; floating gently away into the visions before the cramps
set in. It is a matter of slow, controlled breathing. Tamryn has got this down
to about seven minutes. The faster de can set off, the less time First Ria will
have to realise that de is being catastrophically irresponsible.  De can feel
the searing of dir First's gaze. Can Ria see the miniscule sheen of sweat
collecting on dir forehead? Future Tamryn is about to take one for the team in
several different ways.

Silence as everyone raises their bowls. Tamryn gulps, again, and drains the
horrible tea without flinching. Insatiable Tamryn sets dir bowl down carefully,
relaxes dir shoulders, prepares to inhale with the correct speed and depth, and
is violently slingshot into space.
