---
title: Insatiable Tamryn II
thread: insatiable-tamryn
author: jay
number: 2
synopsis: In which Handelyn Tamryn regrets dir decisions
pov_char: insatiable-tamryn
locations:
 - Bridgehand
---
Handelyn Tamryn is no longer here. There is only velocity. Only movement. Only
a building, unrelenting rushing. Gaining, gaining, yet still gaining, a
limitless crescendo of speed, careening directionlessly through the empty void.
No, not rushing _through_ the void. Rushing _of_ the void. Like as water
flowing, except if water was the only thing that there is, and without surface.
Is this... falling? Is this what falling is like? To slip through the
unsupported tangle past the edge of the bridge, betrayed by the illusory
purchase of feet, by the failing grip of hands. To have the feeling you can
only have once; realisation, desperation, resignation, and acceptance, all
mixed in together.

Very far away, the body of Handelyn Tamryn is wretched, convulsing, limbs
crushed up against themselves, muscles taught and spasming. It shrieks
alternately in pain and terror, writhing and rocking on the dusty floor. Now
vomiting a thin, oily mess, now choking and gasping and sobbing. The others are
crowding, desperate to help, but unable to do anything besides panic. It's all
very embarrassing, honestly.

All of a sudden, Tamryn is back. Still void, still rushing, still exploded all
apart and smeared over all of space, but it's definitely Handelyn Insatiable
Tamryn. De is reeling from the overwhelming, unmediated sensation of speed. But
the more de concentrates on the sensation, the more coherent de becomes. With
effort, de can resist succumbing to the terror, can pull dir edges closer,
contracting, coalescing from a mist to a cloud, from a cloud to a blob. It is
slow and confusing, and any momentary distraction blows it all away again. But
slowly, the blob of Tamryn gathers, and persists improbably in tenuous,
trembling homeostasis.

The rushing hasn't subsided, but it is more tolerable. Tamryn is tense, dir
non-existent hands clenched as though on the handlebars of a roller-coaster,
non-existent eyes squinted against the oncoming non-existent wind. Far away,
Tamryn's body has stopped screaming, and is now emitting a regular, panting
moan, vocalising atonally on every exhalation. The others are carrying it to
the sleeping hut, then cleaning it with water, then covering it with blankets.
The panting sound is slowing as the breathing begins to calm. Tamryn begins to
feel like a _thing_ again.

Whatever is happening right now, it has very little, if anything, in common
with what normally happens during seeing dreams. Handeland Seers are used to
soft, swirling colours. Distant, echoing voices. Wild adventures through the
forest of mushrooms, cryptic conversations with talking animals, and the
benevolent, omnipresent grace of the Bridgehand cascading over them like
bright, warm sunshine. Even the most ambitious Seers - of which Insatiable
Tamryn is certainly not the least - have not described being able to _see their
own body_ as they dreamed. In fact, 'dreaming' is the right way to describe
what it is usually like. The Seers absolutely take their task seriously,
engaging in lengthy discussions in a multi-generational attempt to knit
together a coherent story, to interpret the message and will of the Bridgehand.
But it does still have the feeling of a game, of sorts. Despite the years of
work, or perhaps because of them, the stakes have begun to feel... low.

This is not that. Insatiable Tamryn is absolutely, definitely _here_. Now.
Awake. There aren't any gentle swirling colours or images of dead relatives.
Actually, there aren't any images at all. Tamryn can't _see_ dir body, or
any of the others, but has still somehow been able to apprehend what's going
on. There are definitely sounds though. De can hear dir own low, feverish
moans, the nervous babble of the others, the wind tearing past the door of the
sleeping hut. And... crying? Who is crying? Sightlessly, Tamryn beholds the
gaggle of Seers around dir bed, of which the tallest is knelt beside it. It is
female. It is Handelin First Ria, and she is crying gently into her knitted
hands. Second Tamryn is at first dumbstruck; then appalled, and then
crushingly, horribly ashamed. De has been incredibly stupid and selfish. De
doesn't actually know what de has gotten dymself into. De could have just done
something irreversibly fatal. If de couldn't hear dir own breathing, de
wouldn't even be able to prove that de wasn't in fact already dead. Maybe this
is what being dead is like? How would de know otherwise?

Second Tamryn has the feeling of someone trying to get dir attention. As though
a distant figure is waving frantically. De is still battling the void wind,
trying to keep dymself together, and can't pinpoint where the feeling is coming
from. It's not coming from the world, from the realm of apprehension where dir 
body lies surrounded by dir fretting peers. The world itself is suddenly much
larger, much _much_ larger even, and there are things and places and sounds to
behold in as much richness and detail as in the area surrounding sleeping hut.
It is long, and narrow, and _tall_! So, so tall, and yet nothing in the
vastness of the rushing void. The sleeping hut is perched at the top near one
end, the end that gets narrower the farther is goes. It's the Bridgehand! The
narrow world is the shape of the Bridgehand, and the village is near the tern
end. Insatiable Tamryn is awed by the scale of the thing. De has been out of
the tern end into Workhome a few times, to pick up mixing supplies and so on,
and that takes _days_ to walk. How is it _so huge_?

There is definitely something trying to get dir attention. De redoubles dir
efforts to stay coherent, and puts the world part out of dir mind. The
something is gesticulating wildly at dym, apparently trying to ape the body
language that members use to communicate when the specificity of speech isn't
necessary.

_I can't see you! I can't understand you if I can't see you!_

De can't speak it, can't even gesture it, without a body to speak or pose with,
but de tries to hold the attitude that de would have if de _was_ speaking it.

The gesticulating feeling slowly subsides. Now Tamryn can't detect the
something at all. De isn't sure this is an improvement. But now de can feel
pressure underneath dir feet - can feel dir feet! - and is startled to realise
that de is standing opposite the something. The blob of Tamryn slips,
dissociating briefly before being pulled back together again. It is still hard
work to fight the void wind. The sensation under dir feet feels like standing
on the tangle, and the something is several strides in front of dym.

It is attempting to talk again, but is changing too quickly. Insatiable Tamryn
quiets dir mind, as though exhaling slowly. Calm.

_Slower_

The something slows. Insatiable Tamryn is having an easier time apprehending
the thing, but still has no idea what it is saying. Here? From here? _To_ here.
Something didn't used to be here, but now it's here. From the narrow end of the
world? Tamryn hasn't been ternward for a long time. Is there something over
there? Citizens? Are there citizens coming to the village? It seems unlikely.
Hmm.

The something slows again. Food. Eating. No, not eating. It can't be hungry,
it doesn't exist. Not food, then. The tangle-feeling under dir feet is now sort
of writhing, wrapping tendrils around dir ankles and penetrating into the
bottom of dir feet, pushing upwards inside dir legs. It doesn't hurt, but it's
very weird. De tries to ignore it and focus on reading the something. Dancing.
No, tending. This is frustrating. De feels like de is talking to a child.
Actually, de doesn't know that it's _not_ a child... does it need tending? That
seems unlikely too. The tendrils grow taller, up through dir chest and neck, to
tickle the underside of dir brain. It is making it _very_ hard to concentrate.

The something stops and holds a single pose. Lost. Injured. Ill? Ill. It seems
like the pose for ill, like Tamryn's body is now. Ah. Tamryn suddenly has a
sinking dread. De has fucked up. Fuck. Ah, fuck. De has killed dymself after
all. De is a fucking idiot, has sent dymself to the border of death and this
thing has come to tell dym that de got what de fucking deserved. The wash of
shame comes back, and de can feel the empty hut. First Ria has gone.

The void wind pulls the Tamryn blob apart again. The swirl of panic and guilt
is too much, distracting dym from keeping the blob together. The falling,
rushing feeling is overwhelming again, ripping at dir edges, flaying the
non-existent skin from dir non-existent body. The something is gone, perhaps
also blown away by the wind, and Handelyn Tamryn feels alone. Alone in the
relentless, terrifying rushing of the void. Alone in the sleeping hut. Alone
atop the towering narrow slice of the world. De is slipping; the blob is too
sparse now, it is not coming back. This might be it. This might be what de has
coming to dym. Second Tamryn is more sorry than de has ever been, and First Ria
will never know.

Handelyn Tamryn is no longer here. There is only velocity once more.

