---
title: Finder Jarek I
number: 1
pov_char: finder-jarek
author: jay
thread: jarek
locations:
  - leans
tags:
  - attrapulsion
  - leans
---
Finder Jarek stood at the eveningside railing and let the early morning wind
blow into his eyes. It was chilly in the shade of the apartment block at
51-tern-eveningside, as several members of the Veil huddled in small groups,
shuffling their feet and muttering to each other in low voices. He sighed.
According to the Veiler he had spoken to, by report of the other residents of
this block, maybe twenty-five citizens had been lost last night.

Jarek surveyed the wreckage of the back of the apartment. Starting at the
second floor, the entire eveningside wall of the building was gone; the jagged
edges of the ruin framing the naked insides of the commonhouses with snapped
mycowood struts and crumbling panels of hash. On several floors, surviving
citizens stood at the broken edge of their formerly private quarters, clutching
grubby blankets around them against the wind while they stared into the rolling
clouds beyond the railing.

Mycowood is a reasonable building material, usually. It is cheap, light, and
sturdy. It finds ubiquitous use all over the city for creating vertical
extensions on top of existing buildings - a purpose for which is it quite well
suited, all parameters considered. Despite these favourable qualities, it is
unarguably inferior to the much stronger, denser, and scarcer arborial wood
from the gardens of Conservatory and the Keystone Presidium, and not suitable,
for example, in highly leveraged, cantilevered structures which crane out over
uninhabited space. Unfortunately for the space-poor residents of Leans,
arborial wood is more or less unobtainable. Personal wealth is the lowest here
of any enclave on the bridge, and without a coherent Union to barter for better
materials, scraps of mycowood are the best that most can hope for. Overhangs,
therefore, are a last resort measure to extend the livable space, despite being
a phenomenally bad idea. Accidents such as this one are not unheard of.

However, Finder Jarek is not convinced that this is an accident. Indeed, he
wouldn't be here if it was. Inside his coat pocket, his handle hummed gently
against the palm of his hand, and summoned various twinges of awareness in
the older, animal parts of his brain.

As a pulser, one gains certain advantages. It takes a long time to learn the
knack of coupling, particularly as a quiet nobody eking one's living in Far
Leans. Getting a handle in the first place required some measure of
inventiveness. Years of solitary practice have given Finder Jarek some modest
abilities, one of which is to pick up on the remnant vibrations of recent
attrapulsive activities, which was what was happening now. As he clasped the
handle tighter, a subtle pressure swam around in his head as his eyes moved
over the scene around him. It was a thrumming, an oscillation. Shuddering.

Veil and Sky wasn't going to be much help, but Jarek thought it was nice that
they showed up anyway. Leans needs some kind of support.
