---
name: The Library of Eloryn
type: Building
tags:
  - library
  - eloryn
location: union
---

The Library of Eloryn is both a real building, located in Union, and a living
institution charged with recording, organising, interpreting, and making
available all information in Longbridge, thereby generating and maintaining
[Eloryn](lore:eloryn) as an entity.

### The Library Building

The Library is a large pre-split building in [Union](location:union), with a
grand entrance hall containing many reception desks where visitors can delivery
their questions or request books. Above the hall is are several stories, most
given to the storage of books, notes and artifacts, but also includes a warren
of offices where Librarians update and organise the library's knowledge, the
librarian dormitories, and a large room where librarians prepare answers to
visitor's queries.

### Institution

<include src="lore/eloryn" level="all"/>

### Librarians

Librarianship is a secluded, monastic, and life-long vocation. Most Librarians
live together in the dormitories at the Library, or Library commonhouses, and
seldom spend time outside of their duties. Off-time is permitted for public
holidays, family responsibilities, or by request.

In public spaces, Librarians are identifiable by their minimalist uniforms, of
a long white robe with a sash worn as a belt. The colour of the sash
corresponds to their role and rank within the Library. Librarians wearing the
uniform in public are expected to receive and answer questions from citizens at
any time, and carry paper for this purpose.

Librarians, especially seniors, are aware of the potential for political
motivations to corrupt the interpretation and delivery of information. Sacred
traditions, cultural practices and clerical conventions are designed to resist
this, to varying levels of success. Corruption to external political forces is
considered grounds for expulsion, and causes a lot of extra work for other
Librarians to unwind and extricate any influence that has made its way into the
official records.

### Positions in the Library

#### Administration

##### Head Librarian - Red-and-gold Sash
The Head Librarian runs the organisation of the library and is mostly an
administrator and political representative of the Library. They do not deal
with queries directly, but are expected to be extremely learned to qualify for
the position. They have the authority to promote, reassign or expel librarians
of any other rank in accordance with their Judgement.

##### Librarian Mother - Red-and-silver sash
Mothers are concerned with the day-to-day running of the Library as a physical
place. They are in charge of living arrangements, running dormitory kitchens,
health, dispute resolution, obtaining raw materials such as paper and uniforms,
and so on. Despite not dealing directly with any knowledge work, Mothers are
promoted from experienced Librarians and can be relied upon to have very broad
knowledge and good judgement. They have the authority to promote, reassign or
expel any Librarians in their direct charge in accordance with their judgement.
The title of Mother reflects the association with the traditional sphere of
responsibilities mothers embody in the family unit, and is bestowed regardless
of the gender of the applicant.

##### Librarian Senior - Red sash
Seniors are largely responsible for the organisational processes and clerical
administration of the corpus. They oversee the filing, maintenance and
organisation of information, and have authority over what gets admitted to
record. They are also charged with reviewing these processes, making changes
where appropriate and in accordance with Elorynâ€™s mission. They will be
watching out for contradictions, signs of inaccuracy, and corruption. Seniors
will also train Librarians in these processes. They have the authority to
promote, reassign or expel any Librarians in their direct charge in accordance
with their judgement.

#### Knowledge Work

##### Librarian Interpreter - Green-and-gold sash
A senior position, Interpreters are charged with resynthesizing information
into a more coherent form. This is often necessary with old, incomplete, or
fragmented records, which need to be coalesced and reified into digestible
narratives. This is considered to embody the process of Eloryn 'thinking';
recontextualising the information de has been given to reach an understanding.
Understandings are meticulously documented and will considered canonical
material for future enquiries. Interpreter is a very difficult position to get,
and only the most dedicated and unwavering Librarians will be trusted to
exercise this level of influence over the corpus.

##### Librarian Adept - Green-and-silver sash
Adepts are often in charge of specialised subjects, such as particular
historical periods, academic topics, or organisations of people. When a query
is difficult or obscure, it is sometimes elevated to an Adept to make a final
ruling on the appropriate answer. Queries that find themselves on a Adept's
desk often take many weeks to answer, requiring extensive research,
collaboration with Interpreters, or novel information gathering to provide
factual support to the answer.

##### Librarian - Green sash

<image src="image/librarian" />

The rank-and-file Librarians that you are likely to find at the front desk of
the Library, at remote offices, or around town. Their main duty is to receive,
record and answer queries from the public. They are also assigned domestic
duties by their Librarian Mother such as cleaning and clerical maintenance.

##### Librarian Initiate - Black sash
Not yet trusted to answer real questions, Initiates shadow and assist working
Librarians in both knowledge and domestic work to gain the experience they need
to earn the green sash. New Librarians can expect to spend a year or more at
the Initiate stage.
